Neeko/Biography.md, before:

# 万花通灵 妮蔻 | The Curious Chameleon

#### 引述 Quote
> 雾尾族已经没了。妮蔻要自己弄一个新的部落，现在就要。  
> The Oovi-Kat are gone. Neeko must build her own tribe, now.  

#### 简介 Summary
> 妮蔻来自一个早已迷失的瓦斯塔亚部落。  
> Hailing from a long lost tribe of vastaya,  
>
> 她可以借用别人的外表来伪装自己，融入人群，甚至通过影响别人的情绪状态，一瞬间就能化敌为友。  
> Neeko can blend into any crowd by borrowing the appearances of others, even absorbing something of their emotional state to tell friend from foe in an instant.  
>
> 没人知道妮蔻到底在哪儿——或者到底是谁，  
> No one is ever sure where—or who—Neeko might be,  
>
> 但是想要为难她的人会立刻见识到她的本色，感受原始的精神魔法倾泻在自己身上的痛苦。  
> but those who intend to do her harm will soon witness her true colors revealed, and feel the full power of her primordial spirit magic unleashed upon them.  

#### 目录 Catalog
> [01](#01) | [02](#02) | [03](#03) | [04](#04) | [05](#05) | [06](#06) | [07](#07) | [08](#08) | [09](#09) | [10](#10)  
> [11](#11) | [12](#12) | [13](#13) | [14](#14) | [15](#15) | [16](#16)  

#### 01
> 妮蔻出生的地方是一个远在东方的神秘岛屿。  
> Neeko was born on a remote and largely unknown island, far to the east,  
>
> 一个古老的瓦斯塔亚部落的末代族裔在岛上隐居世外。  
> where the last members of an ancient vastayan tribe remained isolated from the rest of the world.  
>
> 他们被称为雾尾族。  
> They were called the Oovi-Kat,  
>
> 这个部落的谱系可以一直上溯到传说中的瓦斯塔亚霞瑞——所有瓦斯塔亚的祖先。  
> and could trace their lineage generation by generation back to the legendary Vastayashai’rei—the ancestors of all vastaya.  

#### 02
> 雾尾族热爱和平，但同时身怀无与伦比的潜能。  
> The Oovi-Kat were peaceful beings, of unrivaled potential.  
>
> 整个部落与精神领域完美地谐调，所以他们的“烁玛”——也就是灵魂——  
> Their harmonious society blended seamlessly with the spirit realm, so that their sho’ma—their spiritual essence—  
>
> 可以与周遭的生物相融，甚至让他们可以模拟出相应的外形。  
> could intermingle with other beings through mere proximity, and even help them mimic other physical forms.  
>
> 雾尾族族人之间不存在任何秘密，但是少有人像年少的妮蔻那样善于适应、充满好奇而且活力四射。  
> No secrets existed between the Oovi-Kat, but few were as curious, resilient, or energetic as young Neeko.  

#### 03
> 逐渐地，她开始喜欢上了游戏，会经常把一些小玩意儿藏起来，看看有没有人能够找得到。  
> She developed a fondness for games, hiding trinkets and thoughts to see if others could find them.  
>
> 她的好奇心完全不知分寸，而且纯良天真，并没有察觉到自己迷惑人心的本事。  
> Her inquisitive nature knew no bounds, and she was pure and innocent in her charmed existence.  

#### 04
> 但是好景不长。  
> But it was not to last.  
>
> 灾难不期而至。  
> Cataclysm loomed on the horizon.  

#### 05
> 多亏她反应够快，加上雾尾族的老人们的自我牺牲，妮蔻逃过了与家园一同毁灭的命运。  
> Thanks to the quick thinking and self-sacrifice of the Oovi-Kat elders, Neeko escaped the death of her homeland.  
>
> 她笨拙地化成一只鸟的模样，甩下了身后的熊熊烈火。  
> She clumsily took the form of a bird, and fled the smoldering destruction,  
>
> 族人们的尖叫缓缓淡去，沉入了两个领域之间的鸿沟深处。  
> feeling the screams of her people fading into the ethereal gulf between realms.  

#### 06
> 几天以后，疲累无比的妮蔻一头栽进了大海。  
> Days later, desperate and exhausted, Neeko plummeted into the sea.  
>
> 她紧扣着漂木随波逐流，直到视野里浮现出一个古怪的剪影。  
> She clung to driftwood, entirely at the mercy of the currents, until an odd silhouette rose into view.  
>
> 她听到有声音贴着海浪传来，于是便朝着那东西游了过去。  
> She could hear voices carrying over the waves, and so she swam toward the strange structure.  

#### 07
> 当她拼尽了最后一丝力气，终于爬上了甲板，才发现这是一艘开往哈雷尔港的商船。  
> With the last of her strength, she crept aboard what turned out to be a mercantile vessel destined for Harelport.  
>
> 妮蔻找了个角落安顿下来，试着在精神领域中呼唤自己的同胞。  
> Neeko rested where she could, calling out into the spirit realm for her lost tribe.  
>
> 可回应她的只有破碎的悲号，还有宏伟的树木在脆弱的地平线上轰然倒塌的景象……  
> She felt only scattered, sad echoes in response, and images of towering, dead trees that lay somewhere over a fragile horizon…  

#### 08
> 妮蔻下了船，溜进了城里——这是一个陌生的全新世界。  
> When Neeko emerged from the ship into the city, it was a strange and unfamiliar new world.  
>
> 她所有的感官都在嗡嗡作响。换做别人，或是别的雾尾族，也许都会感到害怕，可是妮蔻没有。  
> All her senses tingled. Many a creature, even another Oovi-Kat, might be afraid in that situation—but not Neeko.  
>
> 城市里各色人等喧闹杂处，陌生的人们形貌各异，各怀心事。  
> The society bustled with unique personalities, strangers with a vast array of motives and shapes.  
>
> 无数经历与故事在此交汇，彻底占据了她的心神。  
> This was a place of countless stories and experiences, and it entranced her completely.  

#### 09
> 还没等她走出多远，一个名叫科雷特的瓦斯塔亚水手就发现了她。  
> Before she could get far, she was spotted by a vastayan sailor named Krete.  
>
> 妮蔻不能完全听懂他的话，但是他执意要搞清楚妮蔻属于哪个部落。  
> Neeko could not understand all his words, but he demanded to know which tribe she belonged to.  
>
> 妮蔻只好动用自己的烁玛，模拟出他的面孔和表情，希望科雷特能明白自己没有恶意。  
> Neeko reached out with her sho’ma, mimicking his face and expression to make her peaceful intentions understood,  
>
> 可是他好像一点也不喜欢这样。科雷特的可怕想法汹涌而来，妮蔻窜进了人群，不停地变换形象直到将他摆脱。  
> but Krete did not seem to like this at all. Overwhelmed by his darkening thoughts, Neeko fled into the crowd, altering her shape many times until she escaped.  

#### 10
> 出了哈雷尔港，妮蔻就到了内陆。身处热带的繁盛密林之中，妮蔻认真地揣摩着刚刚发生的事情。  
> Surrounded by lush, tropical greenery in the hinterlands beyond Harelport, Neeko grappled with her recent experiences.  
>
> 她根本想不明白为什么人们的沟通方式只能单纯地依赖语言。  
> She simply could not understand how anyone might rely solely on words as their singular form of communication.  
>
> 这样是不是……太局限了？  
> It seemed so… limiting?  

#### 11
> 为了安慰自己，她把自己变成了一只丛林野猫，和这些在树丛里新遇见的“同类”一同奔跑起来。  
> Seeking solace, she took on the shape of the sleek jungle cats she encountered among the trees, and tried to run with them.  
>
> 妮蔻喜欢这种灵活迅捷的感觉，而且它们的眼睛明亮又锐利，让她想起了自己的家乡。  
> Neeko loved being fast and agile, and their bright, keen eyes reminded her of home—until,  
>
> 突然，领头的野猫变身成了一个漂亮又强壮的黑发女人。  
> quite unexpectedly, the leader transformed into a beautiful, strong, dark-haired woman.  
>
> 紧张的对峙之后，她说自己叫奈德丽，并不太情愿地接纳了妮蔻。  
> After a tense standoff, she introduced herself as Nidalee, and reluctantly accepted Neeko into the group.  

#### 12
> 妮蔻犹豫着不该把雾尾族的事情告诉别人，  
> Neeko hesitated to entrust the truths of the Oovi-Kat to others,  
>
> 但是她又觉得奈德丽异常地亲切，因为她觉得这个女猎手说不定也和瓦斯塔亚有着某种深远的联系。  
> but she felt a deep kinship with Nidalee, because she suspected this bestial huntress might share some forgotten connection with the vastayan race.  
>
> 接下来的很长一段时间，两人成为了很好的伙伴，在荒野中一起肆意地漫游。  
> Their friendship blossomed, and for many months they roamed the wilds together.  

#### 13
> 可是城市和村庄的一切，哪怕是负面的，仍在呼唤着妮蔻。  
> But the towns and cities, with all their flaws, still called to Neeko.  
>
> 她在梦中见到了自己的祖先。他们领她去看死去的树木身上苍白的枝条，一而再再而三。  
> Her ancestors came to her in dreams, showing her the pale branches of those dead trees, over and over.  
>
> 树木需要色彩，再次繁盛起来——妮蔻很确定这一点。  
> The trees needed color, to bloom again—of that much, Neeko was certain.  
>
> 她希望自己的新朋友能够陪她一起回去，可是奈德丽固执地拒绝了。  
> She asked her friend to join her on this new journey, but Nidalee could not be persuaded.  

#### 14
> 虽然沮丧，但坚定的妮蔻还是一个人离开了。  
> Crestfallen, but determined, Neeko set out alone.  

#### 15
> 与雾尾族人一道生活的时光也许已经一去不返，但是妮蔻却忍不住幻想一个近乎魔幻的未来——  
> Her old life among the Oovi-Kat may be lost forever, but Neeko envisions a magical future—  
>
> 心灵相近的瓦斯塔亚人、约德尔人、人类还有任何愿意做同一个梦的生物组成了一个更为庞大的部族。  
> a larger tribe of like-hearted vastaya, yordles, humans, and whatever other creatures might share her dream.  
>
> 在她的想法里，每个人都有可能在这个新的部族里找到自己的位置。  
> As far as she is concerned, everyone has the potential to find a place in her new tribe.  
>
> 她渴望找到这样的心灵，与之结交，并用自己的性命去守护他们的烁玛。  
> She has pledged to seek these souls out, to befriend them, and defend their sho’ma with her life.  

#### 16
> 一旦你理解了妮蔻，就会爱上她。而一旦你爱上了妮蔻，你就会成为她。  
> To know Neeko is to love Neeko, and to love Neeko is to be Neeko.

Commit message:

Update Neeko Biography.md; Update AurelionSol Biography.md;

Neeko/Biography.md, after:

# 万花通灵 妮蔻 | The Curious Chameleon Neeko

#### 引述 Quote
> 雾尾族已经没了。妮蔻要自己弄一个新的部落，现在就要。  
> The Oovi-Kat are gone. Neeko must build her own tribe, now.  

#### 简介 Summary
> 妮蔻来自一个早已迷失的瓦斯塔亚部落。  
> Hailing from a long lost tribe of vastaya,  
>
> 她可以借用别人的外表来伪装自己，融入人群，甚至通过影响别人的情绪状态，一瞬间就能化敌为友。  
> Neeko can blend into any crowd by borrowing the appearances of others, even absorbing something of their emotional state to tell friend from foe in an instant.  
>
> 没人知道妮蔻到底在哪儿——或者到底是谁，  
> No one is ever sure where—or who—Neeko might be,  
>
> 但是想要为难她的人会立刻见识到她的本色，感受原始的精神魔法倾泻在自己身上的痛苦。  
> but those who intend to do her harm will soon witness her true colors revealed, and feel the full power of her primordial spirit magic unleashed upon them.  

#### 目录 Catalog
> [01](#01) | [02](#02) | [03](#03) | [04](#04) | [05](#05) | [06](#06) | [07](#07) | [08](#08) | [09](#09) | [10](#10)  
> [11](#11) | [12](#12) | [13](#13) | [14](#14) | [15](#15) | [16](#16)  

#### 01
> **妮蔻**`Neeko`出生的地方是一个远在东方的神秘岛屿。  
> Neeko was born on a remote and largely unknown island, far to the east,  
>
> 一个古老的瓦斯塔亚部落的末代族裔在岛上隐居世外。  
> where the last members of an ancient vastayan **tribe**`tribe` remained isolated from the rest of the world.  
>
> 他们被称为**雾尾**`Oovi-Kat`族。  
> They were called the Oovi-Kat,  
>
> 这个部落的谱系可以一直上溯到传说中的**瓦斯塔亚霞瑞**`Vastayashai’rei`——所有**瓦斯塔亚**`Vastaya`的祖先。  
> and could trace their lineage generation by generation back to the legendary Vastayashai’rei—the ancestors of all vastaya.  

#### 02
> 雾尾族热爱和平，但同时身怀无与伦比的潜能。  
> The Oovi-Kat were peaceful beings, of unrivaled potential.  
>
> 整个部落与**精神领域**`the spirit realm`完美地谐调，所以他们的**“烁玛”**`sho’ma`——也就是**灵魂**`spiritual essence`——  
> Their harmonious society blended seamlessly with the spirit realm, so that their sho’ma—their spiritual essence—  
>
> 可以与周遭的生物相融，甚至让他们可以模拟出相应的**外形**`physical forms`。  
> could intermingle with other beings through mere proximity, and even help them mimic other physical forms.  
>
> 雾尾族族人之间不存在任何秘密，但是少有人像年少的妮蔻那样善于适应、充满好奇而且活力四射。  
> No secrets existed between the Oovi-Kat, but few were as curious, resilient, or energetic as young Neeko.  

#### 03
> 逐渐地，她开始喜欢上了游戏，会经常把一些小玩意儿藏起来，看看有没有人能够找得到。  
> She developed a fondness for games, hiding trinkets and thoughts to see if others could find them.  
>
> 她的好奇心完全不知分寸，而且纯良天真，并没有察觉到自己迷惑人心的本事。  
> Her inquisitive nature knew no bounds, and she was pure and innocent in her charmed existence.  

#### 04
> 但是好景不长。  
> But it was not to last.  
>
> 灾难不期而至。  
> Cataclysm loomed on the horizon.  

#### 05
> 多亏她反应够快，加上雾尾族的老人们的自我牺牲，妮蔻逃过了与家园一同毁灭的命运。  
> Thanks to the quick thinking and self-sacrifice of the Oovi-Kat elders, Neeko escaped the death of her homeland.  
>
> 她笨拙地化成一只鸟的模样，甩下了身后的熊熊烈火。  
> She clumsily took the form of a bird, and fled the smoldering destruction,  
>
> 族人们的尖叫缓缓淡去，沉入了**两个领域之间的鸿沟深处**`the ethereal gulf between realms`。  
> feeling the screams of her people fading into the ethereal gulf between realms.  

#### 06
> 几天以后，疲累无比的妮蔻一头栽进了大海。  
> Days later, desperate and exhausted, Neeko plummeted into the sea.  
>
> 她紧扣着漂木随波逐流，直到视野里浮现出一个古怪的剪影。  
> She clung to driftwood, entirely at the mercy of the currents, until an odd silhouette rose into view.  
>
> 她听到有声音贴着海浪传来，于是便朝着那东西游了过去。  
> She could hear voices carrying over the waves, and so she swam toward the strange structure.  

#### 07
> 当她拼尽了最后一丝力气，终于爬上了甲板，才发现这是一艘开往**哈雷尔港**`Harelport`的商船。  
> With the last of her strength, she crept aboard what turned out to be a mercantile vessel destined for Harelport.  
>
> 妮蔻找了个角落安顿下来，试着在精神领域中呼唤自己的同胞。  
> Neeko rested where she could, calling out into the spirit realm for her lost tribe.  
>
> 可回应她的只有破碎的悲号，还有宏伟的树木在脆弱的地平线上轰然倒塌的景象……  
> She felt only scattered, sad echoes in response, and images of towering, dead trees that lay somewhere over a fragile horizon…  

#### 08
> 妮蔻下了船，溜进了城里——这是一个陌生的全新世界。  
> When Neeko emerged from the ship into the city, it was a strange and unfamiliar new world.  
>
> 她所有的感官都在嗡嗡作响。换做别人，或是别的雾尾族，也许都会感到害怕，可是妮蔻没有。  
> All her senses tingled. Many a creature, even another Oovi-Kat, might be afraid in that situation—but not Neeko.  
>
> 城市里各色人等喧闹杂处，陌生的人们形貌各异，各怀心事。  
> The society bustled with unique personalities, strangers with a vast array of motives and shapes.  
>
> 无数经历与故事在此交汇，彻底占据了她的心神。  
> This was a place of countless stories and experiences, and it entranced her completely.  

#### 09
> 还没等她走出多远，一个名叫**科雷特**`Krete`的瓦斯塔亚水手就发现了她。  
> Before she could get far, she was spotted by a vastayan sailor named Krete.  
>
> 妮蔻不能完全听懂他的话，但是他执意要搞清楚妮蔻属于哪个部落。  
> Neeko could not understand all his words, but he demanded to know which tribe she belonged to.  
>
> 妮蔻只好动用自己的烁玛，模拟出他的面孔和表情，希望科雷特能明白自己没有恶意。  
> Neeko reached out with her sho’ma, mimicking his face and expression to make her peaceful intentions understood,  
>
> 可是他好像一点也不喜欢这样。科雷特的可怕想法汹涌而来，妮蔻窜进了人群，不停地变换形象直到将他摆脱。  
> but Krete did not seem to like this at all. Overwhelmed by his darkening thoughts, Neeko fled into the crowd, altering her shape many times until she escaped.  

#### 10
> 出了哈雷尔港，妮蔻就到了内陆`the hinterlands beyond Harelport`。身处**热带的繁盛密林**`tropical greenery`之中，妮蔻认真地揣摩着刚刚发生的事情。  
> Surrounded by lush, tropical greenery in the hinterlands beyond Harelport, Neeko grappled with her recent experiences.  
>
> 她根本想不明白为什么人们的沟通方式只能单纯地依赖语言。  
> She simply could not understand how anyone might rely solely on words as their singular form of communication.  
>
> 这样是不是……太局限了？  
> It seemed so… limiting?  

#### 11
> 为了安慰自己，她把自己变成了一只**丛林野猫**`jungle cat`，和这些在树丛里新遇见的“同类”一同奔跑起来。  
> Seeking solace, she took on the shape of the sleek jungle cats she encountered among the trees, and tried to run with them.  
>
> 妮蔻喜欢这种灵活迅捷的感觉，而且它们的眼睛明亮又锐利，让她想起了自己的家乡。  
> Neeko loved being fast and agile, and their bright, keen eyes reminded her of home—until,  
>
> 突然，领头的野猫变身成了一个漂亮又强壮的黑发女人。  
> quite unexpectedly, the leader transformed into a beautiful, strong, dark-haired woman.  
>
> 紧张的对峙之后，她说自己叫**奈德丽**`Nidalee`，并不太情愿地接纳了妮蔻。  
> After a tense standoff, she introduced herself as Nidalee, and reluctantly accepted Neeko into the group.  

#### 12
> 妮蔻犹豫着不该把雾尾族的事情告诉别人，  
> Neeko hesitated to entrust the truths of the Oovi-Kat to others,  
>
> 但是她又觉得奈德丽异常地亲切，因为她觉得这个女猎手说不定也和瓦斯塔亚有着某种深远的联系。  
> but she felt a deep kinship with Nidalee, because she suspected this bestial huntress might share some forgotten connection with the vastayan race.  
>
> 接下来的很长一段时间，两人成为了很好的伙伴，在荒野中一起肆意地漫游。  
> Their friendship blossomed, and for many months they roamed the wilds together.  

#### 13
> 可是城市和村庄的一切，哪怕是负面的，仍在呼唤着妮蔻。  
> But the towns and cities, with all their flaws, still called to Neeko.  
>
> 她在梦中见到了自己的祖先。他们领她去看死去的树木身上苍白的枝条，一而再再而三。  
> Her ancestors came to her in dreams, showing her the pale branches of those dead trees, over and over.  
>
> 树木需要色彩，再次繁盛起来——妮蔻很确定这一点。  
> The trees needed color, to bloom again—of that much, Neeko was certain.  
>
> 她希望自己的新朋友能够陪她一起回去，可是奈德丽**固执地**$could not be?$拒绝了。  
> She asked her friend to join her on this new journey, but Nidalee could not be persuaded.  

#### 14
> 虽然沮丧，但坚定的妮蔻还是一个人离开了。  
> Crestfallen, but determined, Neeko set out alone.  

#### 15
> 与雾尾族人一道生活的时光也许已经一去不返，但是妮蔻却忍不住幻想一个近乎魔幻的未来——  
> Her old life among the Oovi-Kat may be lost forever, but Neeko envisions a magical future—  
>
> 心灵相近的瓦斯塔亚人、**约德尔人**`yordle`、人类还有任何愿意做同一个梦的生物组成了一个更为庞大的部族。  
> a larger tribe of like-hearted vastaya, yordles, humans, and whatever other creatures might share her dream.  
>
> 在她的想法里，每个人都有可能在这个新的部族里找到自己的位置。  
> As far as she is concerned, everyone has the potential to find a place in her new tribe.  
>
> 她渴望找到这样的心灵，与之结交，并用自己的性命去守护他们的烁玛。  
> She has pledged to seek these souls out, to befriend them, and defend their sho’ma with her life.  

#### 16
> 一旦你理解了妮蔻，就会爱上她。而一旦你爱上了妮蔻，你就会成为她。  
> To know Neeko is to love Neeko, and to love Neeko is to be Neeko.
